well good morning they tell me to break
a leg so I did well we are gonna have
some fun today because we're gonna be
talking about how you do customer
success at scale I've been with Amazon
Web Services now for about two years and
I've learned some really interesting
things about how you can take innovation
and really set a set of mechanisms
together to really make some things
happen but as you know when you're
innovate one of the things that happens
sometimes is that you're not always 100%
successful right so interesting I have
two daughters and we have a couple of
traditions anybody here have traditions
in their family with their kids awesome
so one of the things that we do is every
Sunday morning I make pancakes for my
two daughters and they bring me
interesting pictures and they say mom
can you make me these pancakes so they
brought me this picture from Pinterest
and they said mom can you make me this
pancake I looked at it looks pretty easy
so I said of course I can make that
pancake so lesson learned here first I
was very customer obsessed I took input
from my daughters my customers and I
tried to produce what they were looking
for now they actually consumed the
pancake so it was a good MVP but the
user interface was just a little bit off
as it is a lot of times when you're
starting out and that's really the way
innovation is and it really starts with
customer obsession and if you think
about customer obsession the things that
really drives customer obsession I
believe is the cloud and I know this
conference is all about the cloud and
leveraging the cloud in lots of
different ways for lots of different
value but for me one of the strongest
value points of the cloud is that it
enables that customer obsession it
enables you to get faster time-to-market
I was just reading an interesting report
and it
odhh that startup seven years ago would
spend 80% of their venture funding on IT
getting the right hardware the right
software now it's only 20% because of
the cloud allowing startups and
entrepreneurs to really focus on what's
most important your subject matter
expertise not rebuilding that
infrastructure so the cloud really
brings together that time to market that
agility that you need and also that
customer experience I was just reading
the latest Gartner report and it showed
that customer experience from all the
research is really the last form of true
competitive advantage so the cloud
enables that as well so as we're
thinking about customer obsession I know
you're probably sitting there thinking
I've heard this before
right it's customer focused it's
customer driven its customer obsessed so
if you look at my background I I've
worked at several different companies
and I've also been a start-up CEO and so
I've been through lots of different
programs on customer driven customer
obsessed but this what we have at Amazon
is truly differentiated and it is one of
the main reasons that I decided to leave
my startup and to go to work at Amazon
was to really learn how they innovate
how we innovate and how we monetize that
innovation while bringing such
tremendous value to our customers
because it is very different and what
I'd like to do is show you kind of some
of those differences and I'd like to
start with just a little video so if you
guys couldn't run the video for me
that's cool right yeah I didn't know you
guys put a lecture in a microwave yeah
we're putting her a lot of stuff now but
trust me there are a lot of fields
look what a night next I play my podcast
exciting
we need no likes a dog collar for dogs
or during dog food ordering dog you can
bark all you want I'm not paying for any
more dog food ordering gravy that border
eat sausages okay you better cancel that
order likes a hot tub a sucked let's uh
play music okay
[Music]
and then there was the incident wait
that was you guys I don't know was it
[Music]
powering down
she says she's doing it but I don't see
anything to you I'm not talking about
you so I wanted to show you that
commercial I used to use another example
of a company that was very technology
focused not customer obsessed but that
company actually asked me not to share
that anymore
so I've taken that down but what I think
is interesting about this is I think
some of those examples they show that to
innovate and to be customer assess you
have to fail but many of those examples
like the dog collar on the dog we are
having artificial intelligence with them
with a dog which is probably two of the
most adorable things in the planet
doesn't mean that you're going to have a
customer obsessed solution it means you
might have a technology focused solution
and I know that a lot of companies
really love to create a product from
technology and then apply that to a
problem versus starting with a problem
now let me show you an example that I
really love it's not a tech example but
I really think it shows great product
management capability and great customer
obsession so I don't eat turkey but
everybody in my family does and they
tell me this is the best I don't know if
anybody here eats turkey but they say
this is the best turkey that's out there
so the product management team got
together and they were talking to
customers and one of the things that
they found with this jerky was that we
get stuck in people's teeth so being
customer obsessed they started
developing new formulas for the jerky
looking at things customers didn't like
it as well and so they decided to be
creative and look beyond but still focus
on the customer problem so if you can
see it up there in that circle I tried
to circle it in purple that's dental
floss
so they've actually included dental
floss now in the packaging this went and
viral customers were going crazy for it
not just because it helped to solve a
problem but it showed how customer
obsessed this company was and so when
you're thinking about customer obsession
having that customer success what you're
really looking for is you're looking to
have empathy for your customer and
there's a number of ways that you can do
that
what is it you can hire people who look
like your customer so Amazon Web
Services we are builders we innovate
I have engineering teams we create
things and so a lot of our customers are
very similar to us and therefore our
empathy comes from us being just like
our customer but I also manage a team
that puts dotnet applications Windows
applications on AWS most of our
developers are not net developers and so
there we have to figure out different
ways different ways to obsess over our
customers and really learn about what
they want and what they need so you've
got to figure out how you're gonna have
that empathy for your customer and I
know one of the things that's really hot
here in Silicon Valley my startup
actually used it is innovation labs that
focus on empathy or an empathy lab one I
went to was for healthcare and we used
VR virtual reality to simulate what it
was like for a doctor or researcher to
have a broken leg to have glaucoma to
really be able to feel and empathize
with their customer so the hardest thing
that I found from my work over the past
decade and in the industry was how do
you have mechanisms to really capture
that customer obsession to innovate to
get to that customer success and so what
I wanted to do is to share some of those
that we leverage at Amazon the first one
that we use is something called working
backwards from the customer so
everything we do starts with a customer
not with the technology
in fact the first service that I built
with my team I talked to personally a
hundred and forty-one customers now that
was just me
that wasn't my whole team as well so
really understanding what they want
really understanding what the pain
points were really understanding what
the desired outcome was so that I could
then innovate and come up with a great
solution a lot of times especially here
in the valley we start with the
technology artificial intelligence so
cool what can I do with artificial
intelligence versus what does the
customer want or need and how do I begin
that journey from the customer working
backwards and the way that we start that
mechanism from thinking about the
customer working backwards is we start
by writing a press release now this may
seem interesting and a little bizarre I
know it was for me when I came in
because we usually started building code
and then we would present that to sales
and marketing and they would come up
with a problem that we were trying to
solve but the way we do it at Amazon is
we write the press release before we
write a single line of code before we
have a single design document we write
the press release around that now why is
that so important well if you think
about a great press release it's usually
one-page you know Mark Twain used to say
I would have written a shorter book if
I'd had more time so it really causes
you to think very deeply but also very
succinctly about what you're trying to
build you start out with a headline so
you've got to summarize what you're
trying to do and your subtitle and then
you have to explain what you're
launching what you're going to release
in a paragraph at the very beginning and
that paragraph you know is only a few
sentences so you can't have a 10 page
design doc you really have to hone in on
what you're trying to watch our next
paragraph hones in on the customer
problem or opportunity that we're trying
to go after so again very targeted crisp
succinct not every problem not world
peace world hunger but specifically what
are we trying to do in this particular
example and then
we have to include customer quotes which
shows that we've already talked to the
customers and that they would be willing
to stand on stage with us or to actually
be in a real press release with us
around this particular announcement it's
a lot harder than it seems so I would
encourage you to try it just try writing
a press release and your press release
could be around a new product maybe a
new business model that you're working
on it could be around an operational
excellence area so it doesn't have to be
just on a product it could be on any
innovation that you're looking for the
second thing that we do as a mechanism
is we write a set of frequently asked
questions now I thought this is gonna be
so easy because I'll make up my own
questions and I can answer those
questions but wouldn't you know it an
amazonian style Amazon already has the
questions written that you have to
answer so some of those questions are
basics what are you launching but some
of them are if your customer was having
lunch what would they say about this new
service or this new offering or this new
business model and then one of the
always the hardest ones for me is what
would they say over dinner complaining
about wow I wish this had this or I wish
the user interface looked like that what
would they say and then we actually
debate in a room we get together in
rooms and we talk and we say now given
that our customers might not like that
about what we're releasing can we get
the next version out quick enough or
should we hold should we wait on the
release until we can make sure that we
meet that particular need other
interesting things that we do in the
frequently asked questions is we
actually have a set of wireframes in
there for our user design what is the
customer experience look like and this
is really important to us because we
want to make sure we get that customer
experience right we obsess over what is
the experience our customer will have
one of the services we just released at
our reinvent conference our CEO actually
went through the wireframes with us to
say is this design simple enough is it
good enough who did you talk to who
walked through it are you sure that this
is the right design and we do in all of
this before we even write a single line
of code now we do something at Amazon
called digital innovation workshops and
this is where we teach our customers how
to do this customer obsessed customer
success model and most recently I had a
customer that came in and he was looking
for some of the nuances about the
questions that we asked so I created
this slide based on some of the
questions that he asked me to really
explain and some of the nuances behind
those so the first one is who is the
customer
so when I was talking to my customer and
I asked them who the customer is do you
know what he said
telco now telco to me is an industry
it's not a customer a customer is a
person it's a person that you're going
to sell to so where is this customer
that a might of mine was trying to
target telco we go down and we say we're
targeting the DBA the database
administrator for this database at this
type of customer in this industry what
is he or she looking for so we're very
specific about who the target is it's
not generic it's not hand-wavy it's not
done through focus groups it's through
really knowing our customer the second
nuance that we do is we focus in on the
most important customer problem or
opportunity so there's thousands of them
out there but we really hone in on
what's that number-one problem and we
ensure that we not just meet that need
but that we exceed that expectation and
so that means you have to know what that
number-one problem or opportunity is and
that's also hard because typically
customers will talk to you about
numerous things the third one is you
have to know the most important benefit
that you're trying to get for the
customer and then a really interesting
one is how do you know that you
customers need something it's not just
because they tell you or because you
heard it and here's where having diverse
teams really makes a difference
diversity both in terms of men and women
in different countries but also
different thought processes we had a
team once that was formed of all
graduates of a certain MBA school and
you know what it was interesting because
they were coming at the problem from one
perspective based on their training so
without that diversity of thought they
really weren't able to relate to what
their customers really needed so you
need to look at that diversity and ask
the question how do you know that this
is what the customer needs who did you
talk to you who interpreted the data how
did how did that happen and then the
fifth one which is I think really
important is what's the customer
experience going to look like and we
truly obsess over this we spend times in
rooms debating this we write six page
narratives about what this is what this
looks like what does the experience
going to be we take a lot of time and we
consider that we are inventing on behalf
of our customer and that's a serious job
so we take that very seriously I told
you we teach this concept to our
customers and one customer that I
thought was a great example is just eat
I don't know any of you know them there
are a five billion pound startup out of
the UK and they still have very much
start up like tendencies what do they do
they actually deliver food so they do
takeout food and you would think wow how
can you really innovate around that but
there's CTO a Dave is is amazing so he
took our working backwards kind of
mechanisms just like we had a
presentation today and he started really
trying to understand how is he going to
get to his customers so he did shark
tanks with them in the UK to try to find
out what were his customers thinking
about what did they want
did hackathons didn't did a blog to try
to get information from customers on
what they loved and what they didn't
love and they came up with this really
interesting idea where you can now say
to Alexa Alexa how
just eat order my pizza not only will
she order the pizza
but she'll know what pizza you like
because she's been trained to know your
preferences or you might say Alexa order
sushi and sushi will take 60 minutes but
they know that sandy won't wait more
than 45 minutes so they might suggest
something else that could be delivered
in that amount of time this all came up
from just eat working backwards from the
customer not saying how can we use Alexa
how could we use artificial intelligence
but what is our customers problem how
can we solve that and then going forward
to the solution they actually wrote a
what we call a PR FAQ that press release
and frequently asked questions to really
design and determine how they would best
solve this particular problem or
solution now in addition to writing that
press release and that frequently asked
question the other thing that we do at
Amazon that I think is very unique from
any other company that I've worked at is
we do two Pizza teams now what is it to
Pizza team well we said that any problem
should be able to be broken apart into
smaller pieces and in fact we believe
the largest size team that anyone should
have is one that could eat two pizzas in
a sitting now I try to calculate who
could eat less food so I could have a
bigger team but the concept is that
because you're gonna break apart the
problem into something that's manageable
and something that can fit with a small
team that team is empowered to make
decisions they don't have to go through
any bureaucracy they can move very
quickly they can innovate because they
are the startup that's going to do this
particular service you know we see
t-shirts
around you know for six people teams at
Amazon because they're they're the ones
that are developing it just like a
start-up does so as you start to grow
just like just eat I told you they
consider themselves a 5 billion pound
startup we at Amazon Web Services
consider ourselves a startup
how do you continue to have that startup
innovation in that mentality I'll give
you some interesting numbers so when you
are a startup typically you'll spend
about 80% of your time with your
customer because you have to write you
usually have two or three customers
you're doing MVPs you're really learning
from them as you get to be a small to
medium business that number goes to
50/50 you're spending about 50 percent
of your time with customers and the rest
of the time you're spending on internal
things meetings development workshops
but when you get to be a big big big big
company you end up spending 20 percent
of your time with customers and 80
percent of your time is spent elsewhere
which is exactly opposite of customer
obsession so part of what we try to do
is to ensure that we're always in that
startup mode always reach
resource-constrained so that we can make
those right decisions on behalf of our
customer prioritize that correctly now
the other big one for us and this was
probably my hardest to learn is
something we call high velocity
decision-making or two-way doors and
one-way doors so I've worked at very
large companies before and we spent a
lot of time making decisions we'd review
things up the chain down the chain
sideways in the chain getting data from
50 different places then I had also done
my own startup worked in startups and
there you're making decisions you don't
have enough data you're moving very very
quickly so you're making decisions on
the best stuff that you have and you're
having to do it very fast well the
interesting thing about Amazon is we
have both kind of decisions happening at
the same time and the way we just
differentiate around are you going for
speed or you're really going for very
thoughtful cognitive risk-taking is one
way doors or two-way doors so a two-way
door is if you can take that decision
and if you made the wrong decision which
you'll make wrong decisions that you can
easily reverse it changing the color of
a website
or you know changing the name of a
product or even certain products at your
release you could release them they may
not be great and then you can retract
them from the market but a - a one-way
door one-way door is a very thoughtful
discussion because once you go through
that door having to go back out is
really tough for your customer in
particular your customer and so what we
really do there is we're very thoughtful
we spend a lot of time on the decision
we get lots of different people from
different groups together to help us
make that decision so we're doing that
in the right frame of reference now
what's so hard about that is in my day
I'm - buddy dude toreador toreador
toreador and then one-way door so I've
got to slow down I've got to think I've
got to collaborate in that frequently
asked questions document that we talked
about one of the big questions is is
this a one-way door or is this a two-way
door and if it's a one-way door we
really slow down the process so we can
really think about it if it's a two-way
door we work rapidly and innovate very
very quickly does that make sense
because this was one of the toughest
ones but I think one of the most
valuable ones that I found working at
Amazon so let me give you an example of
this this is red fen I don't know how
many of you guys know red fen they're
based in Seattle you guys know them okay
so they've taken the real estate market
and they put it online they consider
themselves a SAS vendor for real estate
for selling and buying real estate now
as they were working backwards from
their customer they realized that their
sellers their buyers and the real estate
agents themselves all needed to know an
estimated value of the property or the
house that they were buying and so they
came up with this first and so initially
their CTO Brigitte Frei if you don't
know where you should get to know her
she's incredible she said we need to go
fast we need to develop this feature
fast because the first to market will be
really important and then they pause to
say is this a one-way door or a two-way
door
do you guys think is this one way or a
two way door nobody knows one way one my
door this is a one-way door because
think about it if you come out there and
you say your property is worth $400,000
and then tomorrow you say Oh your
partner property's worth a million
dollars and then two days later your
property's worth a hundred thousand
dollars you've lost all trust and
confidence from all three of your
biggest customers your buyers your
sellers and your real estate agents so
they actually slowed down and went out
they hired some really interesting real
estate agents they started doing direct
feedback with technologists around the
buyers and the sellers they try to
figure out how banks did assessments
they combined all that information
together and they said you know what in
order to do this correctly we need to
use artificial intelligence so then they
went out they had some skills and staff
they went out and hired those skills
took them a long time to build this
particular function and if you use this
today for your house this is considered
the most accurate assessment of your
houses value on the market and in fact
in some places banks will actually use
this as an assessment of value versus
doing their own assessment again you got
to think through is this a one-way door
or a two-way door they are rapid to
develop on any two-way doors but if a
one-way door happens they slow down make
the right decision and here they
actually made the right decision they
were trading off being first to market
versus being the most accurate and
accuracy won the game here so when you
put all of this together what you really
get is what we call the Amazon fly will
there have been books written about this
lots of articles I just saw a new
article that was in Forbes around this
flywheel and the whole concept here on
the flywheel is that if you select for
your industry the right areas are right
the segments right focus areas and you
feed those elements of the flywheel all
of them
just one of them then what you'll do is
you'll create this this continuous cycle
of growth for your particular company so
for instance for Amazon what Jeff Bezos
and the team said is you know what if we
have lower prices then that will drive
more traffic to our site and therefore
more sellers will come which will enable
us to deliver lower prices which will
get more traffic which will attract more
sellers which will allow us to lower
prices so if you think about that that
continuous fly will continues to drive
that growth but it doesn't just work for
Amazon it can work for other areas too
so let's take a musician's musician as
an entrepreneur they could produce an
album and by producing an album they
could get tours right to go in and sing
those tours make a more popular which
would drive endorsements endorsements
will drive more albums which will
continue the cycle and as long as
they're feeding all parts of that fly
we'll then they'll continue to grow and
as we walked through with customers we
have many examples of this and we work
on this with customers of how to create
that fly will of value for their
industry for their technology for what
they're focused on and typically it
centers around some of the same things
but it could center around the value of
the selection the convenience that you
drive in the marketplace one of the
customers that we have that I think does
this the best is one of the largest
sauce vendors it may be the largest
which is in four in four is really I
think very interesting because they were
working backwards from them customers
and figuring out what does their fly
will look like and part of that hinged
on producing not just horizontal
solutions but also vertical solutions to
feed their flywheel and so as they've
gone out and grown they still consider
themselves a startup but as they feed
that flywheel and as that flywheel is
moving it continues to feed their growth
and as they add new industry vertical
as they're adding more selection of
their product in their portfolio as
they're supporting different options
then they're continue to grow and feed
that flywheel and you can do this for
really any business that you have in the
marketplace so the way I would like to
to end this is we have a lot of
companies who study this for long
periods of time and they'll look at the
flywheel and they'll look at some of the
mechanisms like the press releases and
the PRF ecus and they'll say well how do
I get started what I'm going to say to
you is don't overanalyze this figure out
a couple of these experiments that you
want to run right because this is all
about experiments going back to my
pancakes you know what it might not be
the prettiest thing but if people eat it
and consume it as an MVP you've got
something and you can continue to
innovate on that and create your own
flywheel a couple of numbers CEOs today
93 percent of them say that customer
obsession and innovation is the only way
that they can stay competitive going
forward but 88% of them do not believe
that their teams know how to do this in
a consistent fashion know how to
understand their customer and know how
to innovate so I think practicing these
things makes you more valuable not just
as a company but as an individual as
well listen to your customers wherever
they are and I'll tell you one one last
story which i think is really
interesting when I came to Amazon we
would be in rooms and meetings and
people would say to me sandy what would
low-flying Hawk think about this idea
I'm like wow I don't know I'll go find
out so I went I'm like who the hell is
low-flying Hawk well it turns out that
low-flying Hawk is on one of our
technical blogs and he or she writes
comments on on that blog and they give
their opinion and it turns out that they
had a lot of really really good insight
and really good opinions and so so I
asked low-flying Hawk what would you
think about this particular thing and
and he or she gave me the answer so I
started thinking wow I wonder if Amazon
knows how much money low-flying Hawk
spins so I went into this research and I
I was pretty proud I was like wow I know
how much low-flying Hawk spins and it
was interesting because when I came back
they were like we don't really care this
person is a customer they have great
ideas and we're always going to reinvent
on behalf of the customer regardless
have they spend a dollar a month ten
dollars a month or a million a month
with us we're going to innovate on
behalf of that overall customer so what
I would challenge you to today is to get
started look at some of these mechanisms
and techniques I know I won't have time
to answer all the questions that you
have but I I've included my twitter
handle here and you can reach me via a
lot of different areas on social media
but if I can help you at all getting
started creating your flywheel or
looking at some of these mechanisms like
that PR FAQ I would love to do that
thank you and happy innovating
[Applause]